All right.
In this video, we're going to look at the display property with the values inline block and inline
block.
Now, display is very important because that's actually how we implement Flexbox.
That's how we implement the CSS grid.
But we're not going to get to that just yet.
We'll do that a little later.
So in this video, I want to show you how to turn block level elements into inline and vise versa and
also look at inline blocks.
So let's create a new file called let's call it ten, underscore inline, underscore block HTML.
And I'm just going to close this up.
And for the title, we'll say inline and block styling.
So in the body, I'm going to start off with a UL, I guess I don't even need to give it.
We're only have we're only going to have one UL so we'll just use that as a selector.
But this is going to be like a menu.
So we'll do in a tag in here.
So go just nowhere.
And let's say that these are like categories.
Maybe it's, I don't know, a list of blog posts or something like that.
So we'll just say like technology.
And for this one, let's say business and, I don't know, fashion.
All right.
So let's go ahead and open this up.
And by default list items are blocked level.
Right.
If we open up our, our tools and we, we use our element selector and we look at the list item, you
can see that it goes all the way across and it knocks the next one down so that that's a block level
element.
Now we can change that to be in line.
And in fact, this could be a way to create a horizontal menu, horizontal navigation.
So let's go up into our styling and let's grab on to the UL and let's set it to.
I'm sorry, not the ul the ly.
And let's set it to display inline and save.
So notice that now it's going this way and the bullets are no longer showing either.
Now, you probably want to spread these out a little bit.
So we could do like actually I'd probably put these on the, on the links.
So.
A.
And let's set padding right to ten pixels.
So it's going to spread them apart.
Actually, let's do 20.
All right.
So that's how we can change block level elements to inline.
Now let's take an inline element such as an image and make it block level.
And I'm going to give you a I'm going to show you a reason why you would do this.
So let's put a couple of line breaks in and we'll put in an image.
And inside of our folder we still have the IMG folder with the leaf PNG.
I'm going to use that.
So in here let's do dot slash so the current directory and go into the image directory and we want leaf
png for the alt.
I'll just say my image and save that.
Now this is an inline image or I'm sorry, an inline element if we grab the selector.
And we take a look.
You'll see how it doesn't go all the way across.
If I were to put another image in, actually, if I just duplicate this and save, it's going to go
next to it.
It doesn't get pushed on to the next line.
Now, I want to make this a block level element.
Let me get rid of one of these.
And the reason I want to do that is because I want to add margin auto, because I want it in the middle.
If I were to do that now.
If I were to do that now, nothing happens because we can't do this.
We can't do margin auto on an inline element.
It needs it needs to be block levels.
So we'll simply say display, block and save.
And now we can actually add margin auto.
I can't tell you how how confusing that was to me a long time ago when I was just trying to simply center
an image and margin auto just wouldn't work.
I didn't realize that the the element had to be display block to be able to do that.
All right.
So that's these are two situations where you would want to display something that's normally in line
or I'm sorry, normally block as inline and normally inline as block.
Now, let's say we want some divs here, some some box divs like we've been dealing with.
Just going to put a couple of line breaks and let's do a class of box and an H three.
I'll just say heading and then let's put paragraph form 20
and let's say we have three of these.
Okay.
We'll go ahead and save that.
And let's say we want to align these going across.
Actually, you know what?
First, let's style them a little bit just so we can kind of see the outline and stuff like that.
So we'll do what we've been doing.
Just give them a quick background
border.
Actually, let's not even let's not even do a border.
Let's just do padding 20 pixels.
What else will do margin bottom 15 pixel and we want these to display horizontally.
So obviously we need a width, right?
So width, let's do 32%.
Now if I save that, we get that width, but they're still on top of each other because by default divs
are displayed as block.
So maybe we just need to do inline, right?
Let's do display inline and save.
And that doesn't work.
And the reason this isn't working and it'll show you right in here in vs code the this property width
is being ignored because display you can't use width on inline OC and the margin is also being ignored.
So the solution to this, if we want these to go across is to use inline block, which is basically
like a mix of both.
It goes horizontal, but it also allows us to add widths.
So let's change it to inline dash block and save.
Now this is getting knocked on to the next line because again, we have padding.
So that's getting added to the width because we didn't add the box sizing property.
So let's go up here.
And let's say box.
Actually, you know what?
Let's just put it.
That's you.
That's what I I'll usually do.
But we can just put it in here.
So box sizing, board, box and save.
And now you'll see that they're aligned side by side.
We can probably even do 33.
No, let's do like 32 point.
I don't think I mentioned that we can do decimals in percentages like that.
So that looks pretty cool actually.
But yeah, that's so we have display inline display block and display inline block.
And then later on when we get to flex, we can do display flex.
We can also do display grid.
And I'm going to I'm going to talk all about that in the different properties that are associated with
that as well.
But yeah, so that's that's that in the next video we're going to look at positioning.
There's different types of positioning, relative absolute fixed.
So I want to explain what the difference is between all of those in the next video.